# Bike-Sharing-Demand
# Business Understanding
Bike-sharing systems are a new generation of traditional bike rentals where the whole process, from membership, rental, and return back, has become automatic. Through these systems, a user can easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousand bicycles. Today, great interest exists in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental, and health issues.
Apart from interesting real-world applications of bike-sharing systems, the characteristics of data generated by these systems make them attractive for research. Unlike other transport services such as buses or subways, the duration of travel, departure, and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns the bike-sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that the most important events in the city could be detected by monitoring these data.

# Problem Statemen
What we want to know are :
1. Which variables are significant in predicting the demand for shared bikes ?
2. How well those variables describe the bike demands ?
3. How the variable can impact to revenue and profit ?

# Goals
Know the best variable model can used to predict the demand for shared bake. and that variable choosen describe well when apply it. it is also can give the impact to the revenue and company profit 

# Analytic approach
The proposed analytical approach involves the use of supervised machine learning methods, specifically regression. The model will be trained using historical data to provide more accurate predictions. This solution will provide insights to the executive team for strategic decision-making, enabling more efficient resource allocation and robust business strategy development.

# Metric evaluation
To select the best model for predicting property values, it is necessary to use an appropriate evaluation matrix. In this case, we use the Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) and R-Squared. The use of MAPE is due to the presence of many outlier values in the data and the wide range of property values (1300 - 35,214,380). This is reasonable because the data includes various types of properties, from residential to special properties such as stadiums.

MAPE measures the residual (error) between the predicted value and the actual value in percentage terms. The residual value calculated is the absolute value divided by the actual value, multiplied by 100 percent.

R-squared is a value that shows how much the independent variables affect the dependent variable. R-squared is a number that ranges from 0 to 1, indicating the extent to which the combination of independent variables collectively affects the value of the dependent variable. The R-squared (R²) value is used to assess how much a particular independent variable influences the dependent variable. The R-squared value is obtained from the following equation. yi= Actual value of the dependent variable, fi = Predicted value of the dependent variable.

There are three categories for R-squared values: strong, moderate, and weak. According to Hair et al. (2011), an R-squared value of 0.75 falls into the strong category, an R-squared value of 0.50 falls into the moderate category, and an R-squared value of 0.25 falls into the weak category.

# Conclusion
With good demand prediction, companies can optimize the allocation of resources, such as bicycles, at the right time and under the right conditions. This helps prevent imbalances between bicycle availability and user demand that can have financial implications.

For example, if the company usually prepares the same allocation of bicycles every day and different conditions, it can cause losses because demand is lower than the allocation provided (underpredicting) which results in operating costs incurred will be greater than the benefits obtained or loss of potential profits due to demand that is higher than predicted (underpredicting) than usual due to certain conditions resulting in loss of profits that could have been obtained.

Information from demand predicting can be used to design more targeted marketing campaigns. Companies can target special promotions or offers on days or periods with high demand, for example on peak hours when users demand are high.
